>> Sean: Before I talk about code
splitting, I wanna actually give you
a demo of how you can determine
your code coverage, right?
So, what I want you to do
is maybe pull up a website.
I'm gonna pull up, let's say, mm-hm,
let's see, what's a great
website that showcases this?
Here, we'll do one, I used to work for
mutualofomaha.com or
Mutual of Omaha and
we did an entire site redesign.
It's a multipage app
architecture using Vue JS for
any of the front-end assets and then
it is using Laravel PHP in the backend.
So you can see this was actually
relatively fast to load,
I'll reset it, and
it progressively loads, right?
So let's find out and inspect, so,
you can open up Chrome Dev Tools.
If you don't have Chrome Dev Tools,
you can follow along or
take notes, but currently,
today this is the only feature
in any browser that allows you
to test this coverage metric.
So, when you open up Dev Tools,
you just wanna hit Ctrl or Cmd + P,
and you'll see the little command palette.
I'm sorry, Shift + Ctrl or Shift + Ctrl
+ P or Shift + Cmd + P, there we go.
And you just wanna type in coverage.
And you'll see the first item that shows
up there says, Drawer Show Coverage.
So when this pops up,
you'll see some dialog here and
all you have to do is
click this little reload
icon.
>> Sean: So now you'll see here,
is that instantly you can identify
how much code was used across
this entire application for
this initial view, right?
So, as you can tell here,
we can identify right away,
this is a huge opportunity for this team.
I was just talking to them last
night cuz I was doing an audit, and
I said, dude, why are you not
using 62% of the code right here?
What's going on?
And so now, the one caviar, or
the one thing that frustrates me is that
unless you have full
source mapping turned on,
trying to identify what the unused
code is, is not very friendly.
And this is what I want to solve for
Microsoft Edge,
I have a full specification written
bringing this feature to Edge after we
finish our remote dev tooling work.
But the kicker is,
what if you could just take a web pack
bundle analyzer status data,
and bind it to this?
The dev tools could consume, and
then, you really have a graph
that shows red borders around the modules
that aren't actually used, right?
It's instant easy opportunity to identify.
So we can kinda see that there are areas,
what was it?
I can't remember exactly
what the code was,
but you can see here the red and green
lines are gonna give you the opportunity
to identify, what is used and
what is not used.
And so for now it's not the best way,
it a little time consuming.
But if you do have
pre-staging environment,
you could maybe ship your code unminified,
it's make it easier to see.
Or just have full source
mapping turned on.
And so in this case, what was it?
There were some legacy JavaScript
files that they had to include for
custom analytics and
they told me that, yeah, why is this?
Okay, so here we go.
So it looks like there is some library
that's used to do a bunch of web GL that
is not needed.
That's probably taking
a considerable amount of time,
gonna be like none of this is used.
And it's pulling in a whole
bunch of shaders and like what?
So, this has will be an opportunity,
at least if doesn't tell you right away,
it's hey, these are pretty obvious flags,
maybe you were shipping
too much code upfront.
I mean,
I'm being hard on my former team, but
really look at the total amount
of code that they shipped, right?
It's only about 700 kilobytes.
Now this isn't bad, what they should
be doing is maybe set a standard in
their CI pipeline that just breaks their
build if they go over what they are today.
And so every PR that they make they can
try and lower that barrier every time.
And so that way you have standards,
or performances as a standard just
comes as a first class citizen.
Is just another thing that you do and
you always are concerned about.
So, now when you think about this, so when
I talked about, whereas the, let me see.
So when I talk about these numbers here,
when I say 90% code coverage,
I say that, oops.
>> Sean: You wanna have
this number to be about 10%.
You can't really see it, but
essentially you wanna have out of all
the resources that we're shipping,
JavaScript and CSS, you wanna be using
90% of it, even 80% is a good metric.
But, the reason why I say this
is because if JavaScript and
CSS are the most costly things to load,
and
only half of your code
is actually being used.
You have the instant low hanging fruit
that you can reduce to have a faster
page, right?
So and I'm gonna show you how
Webpack helps enable this.
>> Speaker 2: Quick
question.
>> Sean: Go ahead.
>> Speaker 2: Let's say they had a megabit
of JavaScript-
>> Sean: Absolutely.
>> Speaker 2: And 15%
of it was unused.
>> Sean: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: What kind of load-time
reduction would you be seeing?
Are we talking like, fractions,
10ths of milliseconds?
>> Sean: No,
you could have like a second, two seconds.
You can significantly reduce
the amount of time your page loads.
What was it?
>> Speaker 2: This one's different for
mobile versus.
>> Sean: Yeah, well I mean,
especially mobile too, mobile even gets
more, you'll see more reduction because
those are the devices that struggle
the most when it comes to parsing and
evaluating and executing
JavaScript through the V8 Engine.
So much that even the temperature of that
device can affect how slow it takes.
If you have a hot phone, so
I was working with the flip cart and
the housing.com teams who they're
market is India and they literally have
to test on every single device to make
sure they are performing as possible.
And they found through their testing
that even when their phones heat up,
they were seeing a two to three second
load time drop or increase in their pages.
And so, even mobile devices,
especially these 2G and
3G in emerging markets
are not that sophisticated.
Nobody is rocking the pixel or
anything like that, and so,
if you're trying to reach people.
Or even people in rural areas, I mean,
it's super important to be able
to ship a super-fast experience.
And it's not that you need a megabyte of
code to deliver that initial experience.
That's what the code
coverage really kind of
unveils, it's you only need about
a tenth of this code, right?
And the idea is just understanding
how we can reduce it.